---
title: Primetime Streaming Server releases
seo-title: Primetime Streaming Server 1.x releases
description: What's new in Primetime Streaming Server 1.3 and 1.4 releases.
seo-description: What's new in Primetime Streaming Server 1.3 and 1.4 releases.
uuid: be05db6b-713f-4406-940d-9f3a805f967b
products: SG_PRIMETIME
topic-tags: release-notes
discoiquuid: baec714e-9d41-4e8b-b134-13a736885cbd
---

# Primetime Streaming Server releases {#primetime-streaming-server-x-releases}

What's new in Primetime Streaming Server 1.3 and 1.4 releases.

## New in Primetime Streaming Server 1.4 (December Release) {#what-s-new-in-primetime-streaming-server-december-release}

**Offline Packager**

* Output HLS Streams now contain ID3 metadata present in MPEG-2 TS
* HLS Audio only streams can now have an associated static image
* Support for providing IV as a User input for HLS AES encryption workflows
* Support to output IV to a file when IV is generated by the offline packager
* Playlist Creator now supports associating Multi-Language Audio Groups and Multi-Language WebVTT subtitle groups to media streams

**Origin Server**

* HLS AES encryption is available for Live and VOD workflows. Primetime Origin can Just in Time apply HLS AES encryption to incoming HLS streams or MP4 files.
* It can also apply JIT HLS AES encryption when it is used to convert incoming HDS streams to HLS streams.
* Primetime Origin now supports SWF whitelisting for PHLS streams. Earlier it was supported only for PHDS streams

**Primetime Live Packager**

* Support to generate HLS AES-128 streams for input RTMP and MPEG-2 TS streams

PHDS/PHLS certificates have been refreshed. New expiry date for the same will be 10/01/2016.

### **Bug Fixes included in release 1.4** {#bug-fixes-included-in-release}

* PTPUB-282- HLS set-level manifest created by the OfflinePackager 1.3.1 doesn't have codec and resolution information.
* PTPUB-353 - PlayListCreator doesn't support adding WebVTT info in the set level manifest
* PTPUB-583 - PlaylistCreator tool unexpectedly prepends group URI's with.
* PTPUB-605 Playlist Creator not listing SUBTITLE Group in each variant stream
* PTPUB-634 -Offline Packager adds SpliceInsert to manifest.
* PTPUB-635- Multiple SpliceOut tags inserted for single ad cue.

### Known Issue in release 1.4 {#known-issue-in-release}

* PTPUB- 645 DPISimple Mode is forced even when DPIScte35 mode is specified when both command line cues and in-stream cues both are provided in offline packager configuration

## What's new in Primetime Streaming Server 1.3.1 (MAY Release) {#what-s-new-in-primetime-streaming-server-may-release}

Version 1.3.1 refers to the hotfix. Following enhancements make it a recommended upgrade for customers as it consists of key performance enhancements for JIT MP4 use cases:

1. Performance fix for MP4 JIT m3u8 generation on Origin with DRM including Key Rotation
1. Added a configuration ‘CopyQueryParamToJITFragmentURIs' to copy query parameters from JIT manifest request to generated fragment URIs for MP4 JIT conversion. Refer to HTTP Origin Server documentation for sample usage
1. Allow MP4 files without extension for JIT conversion , via Config/MP4Only configuration added to vod.xml

### Bug Fixes included in release 1.3.1 {#bug-fixes-included-in-release-1}

* 3759167 - Not all SCTE35 cues make it to the output manifest due to timestamp anomaly while packaging. Apply pts_adjustment on the SpliceTime in the TimeSignal of SpliceInfoSection in SCTE35 message.

### Known issues in release 1.3.1 {#known-issues-in-release}

* 3717039 - When the packager is configured to produce DPI simple mode cues, it really should be looking for specific signal types, such as splice insert or placement opportunity, and converting only those to simple mode cues. It should ignore other types of signals such as program start, network start etc.

* 3718598 - When Origin Server is configured for serving protected contents with HSM access enabled the backend LunaSA client does a frequent communication with HSM module

## What's new in Primetime Streaming Server 1.3 (APRIL Release) {#what-s-new-in-primetime-streaming-server-april-release}

Primetime 1.3 release brings several new features around Streaming content, better Usability and Security.

**Primetime Streaming Server as a unified form of Live Packager and Origin Server**

Primetime Live Packager and Primetime Origin are brought together to work as a single component. This component can be used as a Packager or as an Origin or use the combined capabilities to package and host a Live Stream.

This provides a unified file interface to these servers making them easy to run on a single machine. It continues to provide the flexibility to be configured as a separate Packager or Origin.

**Beta MPEG- DASH Support**

Primetime Streaming Server supports MPEG-DASH packaging for Live and VOD workflows. The Live packager component converts ingest RTMP or MPEG-2-TS streams to DASH format. The Origin component accepts a DASH stream.

For VOD workflows, the Offline Packager component converts MP4 and TS assets to MPEG-DASH ISOBFF format.

**Live to VOD Conversion**

A new component Recording Server is now available that supports capturing a Live Stream and archiving for VOD playback. It supports creation of Full Event Replays as well as clips/highlights for part of the event. It can be configured to record Audio-Only Streams, Remove Ads or Slates in Live content. Recording Server works with Primetime Streaming Server as well as third party Origins.

**RTMP to HLS Conversion in Primetime Live Packager**

The Primetime Live Packager component supports creation of HLS streams from RTMP streams. It also allows adding Primetime DRM and Protected Streaming to the output HLS streams.

**Authentication for Incoming RTMP Streams to Primetime Live packager**

A usermgmt.jar now ships with Primetime Live Packager to configure access with trusted credentials when sending a RTMP Stream to Primetime Live Packager

Now the encoders can be configured to use a username/password while sending streams to Live Packager.

**PlaylistCreator Tool to create Top Level manifests for HDS and HLS**

A nifty utility PlaylistCreator.jar is now available with Primetime Offline Packager to easily create top level manifest files for HDS and HLS assets.

**Additional Security feature to incorporate a Hardware Security Module**

Primetime Offline Packager now supports accessing the Packager Credential Certificate and Common Keys from a Hardware Security Module.

A Hardware Security module provides additional protection to these confidential assets.

**Improved Performance for VOD Packaging**

Several performance enhancements has been incorporated to improve the packaging time for mezzanine assets in the Primetime Offline Packager

**Improved Performance for JIT MP4 Packaging**

Several performance enhancements has been incorporated to the JIT packaging capabilities of Primetime Origin to handle user requests for large library of VOD assets.

## Adobe Primetime Streaming Server 1.4 {#adobe-primetime-streaming-server}

### Minimum system requirements {#minimum-system-requirements}

**Network requirements**

* Network should be Multicast enabled to send MPEG-TS stream from an encoder to Live Packager. Live Packager also accepts an RTMP stream from an encoder that does not require a multicast network.

**Supported operating systems**

* Linux CentOS 6.3 64 bit

**Hardware requirements**

* 3.2GHz Intel® Pentium® 4 processor (dual Intel Xeon® or faster recommended)
* 64-bit operating systems: 4GB of RAM (8GB recommended)
* 1Gb Ethernet card recommended (multiple network cards and 10Gb also supported)
* Disk:

  * (Disk-SAS) : Minimum 10GB with 7.5K RPM
  * (Disk-SSD) : 400MBps read/write
  * (NAS) : 1 GB dedicated link

**Software requirements**

* Oracle Java JRE 1.7 (Recommend: Sun/Oracle Hotspot JVM). The JDK is required for JConsole access to the JMX APIs

### Install and configure Primetime Streaming Server {#install-and-configure-primetime-streaming-server}

**Install streaming server**

1. Download the Java SE and JDK software from the [Oracle site](https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html) and follow the installation instructions.
2. Extract the Adobe Primetime-Streaming Server 1.4 archive file, `Primetime- StreamingServer-1-4-0-b206-12042014.zip` to your disk.

**Start the Primetime Streaming Server**

To start the Streaming Server, execute the following command from the command line in the Streaming Server's root directory:  
`$./pss_start.sh`

**Configure the Primetime Streaming Server as Live Packager or HTTP Origin Server**

To configure the Streaming Server as Live Packager or Origin Server, update the pss.xml config file placed at conf directory in the Streaming Server's root directory:

```
<Config> 
<!-- Set this false to disable the Origin Component. --> 
<OriginEnabled&gt;true&lt;/OriginEnabled>  
<!-- Set this false to disable the Packager Component. -->  
<PackagerEnabled&gt;true&lt;/PackagerEnabled>
</Config>
```

**Stop the Primetime Streaming Server**

To stop the Streaming Server, execute the following command in the Streaming Server's root directory:  
`$./pss_stop.sh`

**Restart the Primetime Streaming Server**

To restart the Streaming Server, stop and start the Streaming Server.

<!-- 

Comment Type: draft

**Configuring Primetime Streaming Server**

Refer the Primetime Streaming Server Getting Started document for the configuration details available at [https://help.adobe.com/en_US/primetime/platform/primetime_streaming_server.pdf](https://help.adobe.com/en_US/primetime/platform/primetime_streaming_server.pdf).

-->

**Uninstalling the Primetime Streaming Server**

To uninstall the Streaming Server, stop the Streaming Server and remove the Streaming Server's pss directory in the Primetime directory

## Working with Live Packager and Origin Server 1.4 {#working-with-live-packager-and-origin-server}

This section applies when Primetime Streaming Server is not used and instead Primetime Live packager AND/OR Primetime Origin Server is being deployed

### Minimum system requirements {#minimum-system-requirements-1}

**Network requirements**

* Network should be Multicast enabled to send MPEG-TS stream from an encoder to Live Packager. Live Packager also accepts an RTMP stream from an encoder that does not require a multicast network.

**Supported operating systems**

* Linux CentOS 6.3 64 bit

**Hardware requirements**

* 3.2GHz Intel® Pentium® 4 processor (dual Intel Xeon® or faster recommended)
* 64-bit operating systems: 4GB of RAM (8GB recommended)
* 1Gb Ethernet card recommended (multiple network cards and 10Gb also supported)
* Disk:

  * (Disk-SAS) : Minimum 10GB with 7.5K RPM
  * (Disk-SSD) : 400MBps read/write
  * (NAS) : 1 GB dedicated link

**Software requirements**

* Oracle Java JRE 1.7 (Recommend: Sun/Oracle Hotspot JVM). The JDK is required for JConsole access to the JMX APIs

The above minimum system requirements holds true for Origin Server as well as Live Packager.  

### Install and configure the Live Packager {#install-and-configure-the-live-packager}

**Installing the Live Packager**

1. Download the Java SE and JDK software from the [Oracle site](https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html) and follow the installation instructions.
1. Extract the Adobe Primetime - Live Packager 1.4 archive file `Primetime-LivePackager-1-4-0-b206-12042014.zip` to your disk.

**Installing the HTTP Origin Server**

1. Download the Java JRE and JDK software from the [Oracle site](https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html) and follow the installation instructions.
1. Extract the Adobe Primetime - HTTP Origin Server 1.4 archive file, `Primetime-HttpOrigin-1-4-0-b206-12042014.zip`, to your disk.

**To start the Live Packager** To start the packager, execute the following command from the packager's root directory:  
`$packager_start.sh`

**To start the HTTP Origin Server**

To start the HTTP Origin Server, execute the following command from the command line in the Origin Server's root directory:  
`$./origin_start.sh`

**Stop the Live Packager**

To stop the packager, execute the following command from the packager's root directory:  
`$packager_stop.sh`

**Stop the HTTP Origin Server**

To stop the HTTP Origin Server, execute the following command in the Origin Server's root directory:  
`$./origin_stop.sh`

**Restart the Live Packager**

To restart the packager, stop and start the packager.  
  
**Note**: When the packager starts, it attempts to initialize the bootstrap information from the fragment target in the temp directory. If the bootstrap information is found at the fragment target, it implies that the packager has been restarted. In case of restart, the packager waits until the next fragment boundary and then starts packaging. The packager inserts a gap entry in the bootstrap to indicate that there are missing fragments.

**Restart the HTTP Origin Server**

To restart the HTTP Origin Server, stop and start the HTTP Origin Server.

**Configuring the Live Packager**

The distribution file contains a sample configuration that can be used for testing the packager.

After extracting the Adobe Primetime - Live Packager 1.4 archive, change directories to the packager directory, and run the packager_start.sh script. The sample configuration listens on the multicast address 239.235.0.3:14000, and runs the local origin server on port 8080. The output is configured to be written to the `packager/webroot/_default_/_default_/ directory`.

<!-- 

Comment Type: draft

For more details about the configuration refer [the Primetime Live Packager document](https://help.adobe.com/en_US/primetime/api/packagers/index.html).

-->

**Configuring the HTTP Origin Server**

Refer the Primetime HTTP Origin Server Getting Started document for the configuration details available here.

**Uninstalling the Live Packager**

To uninstall the packager, stop the packager and remove the packager directory from the Primetime directory.

**Uninstalling the HTTP Origin Server**

To uninstall the HTTP Origin Server, stop the HTTP Origin Server and remove the HTTP Origin Server's httporigin directory in the Primetime directory.

## Adobe Primetime Offline Packager 1.4 {#adobe-primetime-offline-packager}

### Minimum system requirements {#minimum-system-requirements-2}

**Supported operating systems**

* Linux CentOS 6.3 64 bit

**Hardware requirements**

* 3.2GHz Intel® Pentium® 4 processor (dual Intel Xeon® or faster recommended)
* 64-bit operating systems: 4GB of RAM (8GB recommended)
* 1Gb Ethernet card recommended (multiple network cards and 10Gb also supported)
* Disk:

  * (Disk-SAS) : Minimum 10GB with 7.5K RPM
  * (Disk-SSD) : 400MBps read/write
  * (NAS) : 1 GB dedicated link

**Software requirements**

* Oracle Java JRE 1.7 or later.

### Install and configure Offline Packager {#install-and-configure-offline-packager}

To install Offline Packager, follow these steps:

1. Download the Java SE software from the [Oracle site](https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html) and follow the install instructions.
1. Extract the Adobe Primetime - Offline Packager 1.4 archive file, `Primetime- OfflinePackager-1-4-0-b206-12042014.zip`, to your disk.

Refer the Primetime Offline Packager Getting Started document for the configuration details available [here](https://help.adobe.com/en_US/primetime/api/packagers/offline/index.html).

## Helpful resources {#helpful-resources}

* See complete help documentation at [Adobe Primetime Learn & Support](https://helpx.adobe.com/support/primetime.html) page.