---
description: The CustomRangeMetadata class identifies different types of time ranges in a VOD stream  mark, delete, and replace. For each of these custom time range types, you can perform corresponding operations, including deleting and replacing ad content.
seo-description: The CustomRangeMetadata class identifies different types of time ranges in a VOD stream  mark, delete, and replace. For each of these custom time range types, you can perform corresponding operations, including deleting and replacing ad content.
seo-title: Custom time range operations
title: Custom time range operations
uuid: e9c6a135-124e-44d4-adf2-dc9d671e2483
index: y
internal: n
snippet: y
---

# Custom time range operations{#custom-time-range-operations}

The CustomRangeMetadata class identifies different types of time ranges in a VOD stream: mark, delete, and replace. For each of these custom time range types, you can perform corresponding operations, including deleting and replacing ad content.

<a id="section_1323C0BAC259424C85A6ACFB48FE77EC"></a>

For ad deletion and replacement, TVSDK uses the following *custom time range operation* modes:

* **MARK** This mode was referred to as custom ad markers in previous versions of TVSDK. The mode marks the beginning and ending times for ads that are already placed into the VOD stream. When there are time range markers of type `MARK` in the stream, an initial placement of `Mode.MARK` is generated by `CustomMarkerOpportunityGenerator` and resolved by `CustomRangeResolver`. No ads are inserted. 

* **DELETE** For `DELETE` time ranges, an initial `placementInformation` of type `Mode.DELETE` is created and resolved by `CustomRangeResolver`. `DeleteRangeTimelineOperation` defines the ranges to be removed from the timeline, and TVSDK uses `removeByLocalTime` from the Adobe Video Engine (AVE) API to complete this operation. If there are DELETE ranges and Adobe Primetime ad decisioning metadata, the ranges are deleted first, then the `AuditudeResolver` resolves ads using the typical Adobe Primetime ad decisioning workflow. 

* **REPLACE** For `REPLACE` time ranges, two initial `placementInformations` are created, one `Mode.DELETE` and one `Mode.REPLACE`. `CustomRangeResolver` deletes the time ranges first and then the `AuditudeResolver` inserts ads of the specified `replaceDuration` into the timeline. If no `replaceDuration` is specified, the server determines what to insert.

To support these custom time range operations, TVSDK provides the following:

* Multiple content resolvers

  A stream can have multiple content resolvers based on the ad signaling mode and ad metadata. The behavior changes with different combinations of ad signaling modes and ad metadata. 
* Multiple initial opportunities using `CustomMarkerOpportunityGenerator`. 
* A new ad signaling mode, `CUSTOM_RANGES`.

  Ads are placed based on Time Range data from an external source, such as a JSON file.

