---
seo-title: Running the DRM Server for Protected Streaming
title: Running the DRM Server for Protected Streaming
uuid: 9bbe211d-268b-43c2-9e55-7ce62de40d30
---

# Running the DRM Server for Protected Streaming {#running-the-drm-server-for-protected-streaming}

Before you can start the Adobe Primetime DRM Server for Protected Streaming, it is recommended that you verify the validity of the settings in the configuration files.

You can verify the validity of the settings by using the utilities that have been provided with the license server. (See *Configuration validator* in this guide.

If you want to start Tomcat and the license server, you need to run [!DNL catalina.bat start] or [!DNL catalina.sh start] from Tomcat's [!DNL bin] directory.

After the server has started, you need to verify that it has been correctly configured by opening [!DNL https://<lic<span></span>ense-server-host:port>/flashaccessserver/<tenant-name>/flashaccess/license/v1] in a browser window. If the tenant configuration has been successfully loaded, a confirmation message appears.

## Log files {#log-files}

The log files generated by the Adobe Primetime DRM Server for Protected Streaming application are located in the directory specified by LicenseServer.LogRoot.

>[!NOTE] {class="- topic/note "}
>
>If the current log files are deleted or moved while the server runs, the log file may not be re-created. Therefore some log information may be deleted.

### Log directory structure {#section_F490A483D60145ADBC21038914C39203}

Log directories are structured for ease of use. The log directory has the following structure:

```
<i class="+ topic ph hi-d="" i "="">
 LicenseServer.LogRoot/ 
 flashaccess-global.log 
     flashaccessserver/ 
         flashaccess-partition.log 
         tenants/ 
             
 <i class="+ topic ph hi-d="" i "="">
  tenantname/ 
                  flashaccess-tenant.log
 </i class="+ topic>
</i class="+ topic>
```

### Global log file {#section_1CFA90748142439C9F3BE380969539DA}

The global log file, [!DNL flashaccess-global.log], is located in *LicenseServer.LogRoot*. The log may include log messages that the Adobe Primetime DRM Java SDK or log messages may have generated during the time that the server has been initialized.

### Partition log file {#section_5660137CD6AA40519E72A4315534846B}

The partition log file, [!DNL flashaccess-partition.log], is located in the [!DNL <LicenseServer.LogRoot>/flashaccesserver] directory. It includes log messages that have been generated during the processing of a license request.

### Tenant log file {#section_F0257CC0831647F18A746B4F02E3E910}

Each tenant's tenant log file, [!DNL flashaccess-tenant.log], is located in [!DNL <LicenseServer.LogRoot>/flashaccesserver/tenants/<tenantname>]. The tenant log includes audit information that describes each license that is generated for this tenant.

## Updating configuration files {#updating-configuration-files}

As soon as the license server reads one of the license server configuration files (global or tenant configuration), the configuration information is cached in memory. Therefore the files do not have to be read from disk for every license request. However, the server also allows most values in the configuration files to be modified without requiring a server restart for the changes to take effect.

Whenever you modify the configuration file, the license server stores the time that the file was last modified. At a configurable interval, the server checks if the file modification time has changed. If it has changed, the server automatically reloads the contents of the configuration file.

If you want to control how often the server checks for updates, you need to to set the `refreshDelaySeconds` attribute in the `Caching` element of the global configuration file. For example, if `refreshDelaySeconds` is set to 3600 seconds, the server will update the configuration within at most one hour from the modification time of the configuration file. If `refreshDelaySeconds` is set to 0, the server checks for configuration updates at every request. It is not recommended that you set `refreshDelaySeconds` to a low value in any production environments because doing this can affect performance.

The `Caching` element also controls how many tenants' configurations are cached at once. You can set this value to a number that is smaller than the total number of tenants to limit the amount of memory being used to cache the configuration information. If a request is received for a tenant that is not in the cache, the configuration is loaded before the request can be processed. If the cache is full, the least recently used tenant is removed from the cache.

The cached version of the configuration continues to be used in the following situations (up until the next time the server checks for updates):

* If a change is saved to a configuration file or to any of the certificate files referenced in the [!DNL flashaccess-tenant.xml] file while the server attempts to read the file 
* If the file's timestamp is found to be less than one second before the current time 
* If the file's timestamp is in the future

If there is no cached version, loading of the configuration fails, and an error is returned to the client. The server then attempts to load the file again the next time it receives a request for that tenant.

### Updating the global configuration file {#section_AA546C72442646CFB8906AEEBDF50587}

You can modify the HSM password in [!DNL flashaccess-global.xml] at any time. The changes take effect the next time that the server reloads the configuration file. However, changes to the Logging and Caching elements are not reloaded. You need to restart the server before any changes for these elements become effective.

### Updating the tenant configuration file {#section_71624DB8DF28480F84F34F0FF7FD4365}

You can modify all values that are specified in the [!DNL flashaccess-tenant.xml] file at any time. The changes take effect the next time that the server reloads the configuration file. Also, the server checks for any modifications in all credential ( [!DNL .pfx]) files and packager whitelist certificate files that are referenced in the tenant configuration file.