---
description: The CustomRangeMetadata class identifies different types of time ranges in a VOD stream: mark, delete, and replace. For each of these custom time range types, you can perform corresponding operations, including deleting and replacing ad content.
seo-description: The CustomRangeMetadata class identifies different types of time ranges in a VOD stream: mark, delete, and replace. For each of these custom time range types, you can perform corresponding operations, including deleting and replacing ad content.
seo-title: Custom time range operations
title: Custom time range operations
---

# Custom time range operations

<a id="section_1323C0BAC259424C85A6ACFB48FE77EC"></a>

For ad deletion and replacement,  uses the following *custom time range operation* modes:
* **MARK**
  This mode was referred to as custom ad markers in previous versions of . The mode marks the beginning and ending times for ads that are already placed into the VOD stream. When there are time range markers of type `codeph MARK` in the stream, an initial placement of `codeph Mode.MARK` is generated by `codeph CustomMarkerOpportunityGenerator` and resolved by `codeph CustomRangeResolver`. No ads are inserted.
  
  
* **DELETE**
  For `codeph DELETE` time ranges, an initial `codeph placementInformation` of type `codeph Mode.DELETE` is created and resolved by `codeph CustomRangeResolver`. `codeph DeleteRangeTimelineOperation` defines the ranges to be removed from the timeline, and  uses `codeph removeByLocalTime` from the Adobe Video Engine (AVE) API to complete this operation. If there are DELETE ranges and  metadata, the ranges are deleted first, then the `codeph AuditudeResolver` resolves ads using the typical  workflow.
  
  
* **REPLACE**
  For `codeph REPLACE` time ranges, two initial `codeph placementInformations` are created, one `codeph Mode.DELETE` and one `codeph Mode.REPLACE`. `codeph CustomRangeResolver` deletes the time ranges first and then the `codeph AuditudeResolver` inserts ads of the specified `codeph replaceDuration` into the timeline. If no `codeph replaceDuration` is specified, the server determines what to insert.
  
  

To support these custom time range operations,  provides the following:
* Multiple content resolvers
  A stream can have multiple content resolvers based on the ad signaling mode and ad metadata. The behavior changes with different combinations of ad signaling modes and ad metadata.
  
  
* Multiple initial opportunities using `codeph CustomMarkerOpportunityGenerator`.
* A new ad signaling mode, `codeph CUSTOM_RANGES`.
  Ads are placed based on Time Range data from an external source, such as a JSON file.
  
  

