---
seo-title: Out-of-band licenses overview
title: Out-of-band licenses overview
uuid: 82e4529a-ee1b-4c0c-8885-e0e68319d1a0
---

# Out-of-band licenses overview{#out-of-band-licenses-overview}

Licenses can also be obtained out-of-band (without contacting a Primetime DRM license Server) by storing the license on disk and in memory using the `storeVoucher()` method.

To play encrypted videos in Primetime, the respective runtime needs to obtain the license for that video. The license contains the video’s decryption key and is generated by the Primetime DRM license server that the customer has deployed.

The runtime generally obtains this license by sending a license request to the Primetime DRM license server indicated in the video’s DRM metadata ( `DRMContentData` class). The application can trigger this license request by calling the `DRMManager.loadVoucher()` method.

`DRMManager.storeVoucher()` allows the application to send licenses that it has obtained out-of- band. The runtime can then skip the license request process and use the forwarded licenses for playing encrypted videos. The license still needs to be generated by the Primetime DRM license server before it can be obtained out-of-band. However, you have the option of hosting the licenses on any HTTP server, instead of an Primetime DRM license server.

`DRMManager.storeVoucher()` is also used to support license sharing between multiple devices. After Primetime DRM 3.0, this feature is referred to as "Device Domain Support". If your deployment supports this use case, you can register multiple machines to a device group using the `DRMManager.addToDeviceGroup()` method. If there is a machine with a valid domain-bound license for a given content, the application can then extract the serialized license using the `DRMVoucher.toByteArray()` method and on your other machines you can import the licenses using the `DRMManager.storeVoucher()` method. 
